Now that we've talked about unit testing
and some ways for us to approach it,
to think about it and to examine
the results and qualify the results,
I want to shift to end to end testing.
And I believe, ultimately that
end to end testing is one of
the most underrated most high value
activities that organizations can do.
The reason being is that you
have typically a disconnect or
a separation between the development
team and the QA team.
And so not only do you have the separation
between the development team and
the QA team, you also have a communication
gap between the stakeholders.
So if you've ever worked on a project, and
you've built something, and then, you show
it to your stakeholders and they're like,
that's not exactly what I had in mind.
We've all been there, like you tried to
interpret what they say, and they're like,
well, of course I didn't tell
you that's what I wanted to do,
I thought it was obvious.
So now imagine you've kind of got
these three tiers of stakeholders,
developers and your QA department.
And so you have a communication gap,
you build something, but
then you have a time gap for
that to be tested and evaluated.
And so it creates this disconnected
environment where you don't know what
you're building and
then you don't know if it works.
And I have seen projects at
scale be completely delayed
by weeks because of this kind
of asynchronous gap that is
really caused by just human beings and
the human condition.
And so when developers optimize ownership
outwards in terms of communication and
automation, that they can
start to take control of
the software development lifecycle,
optimize it and
create value to the QA department and
to the stakeholders.
Now, I'm not saying that there
should not be a QA department,
but I firmly believe that human
being should never do what
a robot can do perfectly
every single time.
From here,
we're gonna jump into the application and
we're gonna walk through what proper
testing looks like, end to end testing,
in a construct or the confines or
context of an Nx workspace.
So, End to End Testing with Cypress,
the fundamental premise here is
that human beings cannot scale.
Not only that,
human beings are error prone.
And so if you think that you as
a human being can do the same
task perfectly every single time,
the same exact way,
then I would say you are either a robot or
cyborg, or we're not being honest.
And I've actually had some kind of
contentious relationships with QA because
there's a little bit of a territory thing,
but at the end of the day,
you really have to be honest and
say like, I cannot test this application
the same way every single time,
depending on, are you hungry?
Are you angry?
Are you in a hurry?
It's very easy to cut corners and
so, as I said before,
never let a human being do what a robot
can do perfectly every single time.
Now, this is where we stop.
And I have to be careful what I say
here because I don't want to marginalize
anybody's contributions,
especially to Open Source Initiative,
so I'm trying not to be negative here.
So I want to temper what I'm going to say.
But I'm about to go on a rant and
this is pertinent to,
I believe, angular development and really,
I feel like the end to end
testing community in general.
So, just a precursor,
in theory I believe that
when you're doing automated
end to end testing,
you are essentially printing money for
your company.
And in my mind, when I think of
automated end to end testing,
I'm sitting on a beach and
I'm drinking fruity,
delicious drinks with little
umbrellas in it and life is amazing.
So this is what I believe end
to end testing should be.
Unfortunately, this is
what the current state of
most end to end testing is for
Angular developers.
And the reason being is
that the default tool for
testing in Angular is protractor.
Now, to be fair, protractor is,
they've done a good job
with what they have or
what they are allowed to work with,
which is selenium.
And selenium was simply not built for
the modern webstack.
And so I have spent more time
fighting with protractor and
selenium than any other
technology in the world.
And so even now, my eyes may be twitching
from the stress of that environment,
that you would run a test or test suite
it would work five times in a row,
then you would run it again and
one random test would fail.
You'd run it again and
some other random tests would fail.
And eventually,
it just turns into this situation here.
Now fortunately for us, there is cypress.
And so cypress is, in my opinion,
the SpaceX compared to selenium's NASA.
It's progressive and it just works.
So not only does it just work, but
it's developer friendly, open source, and
it's built from the ground up.
So the folks at Cypress,
they just said this isn't working and so
they built an entirely new framework
essentially from the ground
up to work with modern web applications.
And for me, it's magical.
It allows you to do time travel, real
time reloads, everything that you'd want,
spies, stubs, clocks,
network traffic control, etc.
The one thing that if you
notice in this corner here,
consistent results,
that to me puts a tear in my eye.
Like, it literally just works, and
the fact that it works every
single time it's magical.
It has cross browser support,
so this is one of, I think,
the main criticisms against
Cypress up until recently.
But it now supports Chrome,
Firefox, Edge, Electron,
Brave and not only that,
the documentation is amazing.
And so they've done a really good job
of just everything that you could
possibly want to do, really laying that
out and just putting all the tools,
all the information needed right
upfront for you to get started.
The test runner is next level.
And so the big thing here is that you have
your command log that you can time travel,
you can set your viewport sizing, and
you can also see your application
in real time as it's being tested.
And not only that, is you can
run your test against any number
of browsers and see all of your tests.
And then you can run them all or in one
at a time depending on what you wanna do.
So if you are like I just wanna run
this test, you can jump in and do this.
And not only that,
is they have an additional kind of paid
feature that I think is interesting.
And depending on what you're doing,
certainly a good value, but
the ability to instrument your end
to end test on their platform so
that you have this kind of master
control center to see your runs,
organize your results, see your test
failures and then respond appropriately.
Now, here's the beauty of this,
when you use the Angular COI,
it comes with protractor.
But we get Cypress for free with Nx and
for this alone, I believe this is a good
reason to use Nx, we get Cypress for free.